## Assvan

The Penn State Cycling Club. Let that sink in. Okay, to the untrained reader, that means like almost nothing. But to me, it was a total roller coaster of a club, and despite all the tribulations that happen when people have different personalities and such, I would not trade it for the world.

The spring semester is when road racing season happens. Since the university semester goes between January and May, the road racing season goes between March and May, albeit May being only for one week for National Championships. Penn State Cycling is part of the Eastern Collegiate Cycling Conference, which encompasses schools from Delaware to Maine. Given that the season starts in March with the bulk of it being in the latter month and April, race weekends are often cold, disgusting and dreary. The first two or three race weekends in early March may as well still be considered winter, even though the first half of March *is* still winter. The leg warmers, base layers and anything else to keep warm but not too warm are still out, and only until maybe mid-April do many people elect to ditch them for lighter fare. Alas.

It is now the beginning of April. The race weekend two weeks from now is a combined Dartmouth–University of Vermont production, with the Saturday being on Dartmouth's campus and Sunday on the roads of Charlotte (pronounced Char-lot), Vermont. Our club is under the jurisdiction of Penn State Club Sports, which has rather specific policies for all clubs under its umbrella to ensure the safety of all. I have been a club officer for three years by this point, so I have gotten their shtick every August: the collegiate club sports world in general is a small world, and club sports are the most risky single part of any institution of higher education. It is not like varsity sports under NCAA jurisdiction where everything is tightly scrutinised; club sports are run not much unlike any other non-sport club. Operations are handled almost solely by the club except in cases of emergency, among other things. This includes transportation, for the most part.

Hear me out on this when I say for the most part. But back to the scene at hand. Two weekends from now is Dartmouth/UVM. Club Sports wants a roster and itenerary of the entire trip submitted to them at least three days in advance of departure, but we as a club decided to have that stuff finalised a week and three days in advance to allow for any last-minute changes or adverse situations to be addressed. For this weekend, only me and James signed up. Normally, there would be at least one club member who has a motor vehicle to drive and allow us to live out of for a weekend, as we will have our bikes, accessories, clothes and some study materials in the case we somehow have enough down time to study. But our deadline for the itenerary comes and we are still the only ones signed up. Neither of us have motor vehicles on campus. Fortunately, Club Sports has a contract with the local Enterprise Rent-a-Car office to provide not only discounted rental rates, but allow those booking on Club Sports's account to drive anything necessary. Normally, it is the policy of this region of Enterprise to not allow those under 25 to drive anything other than a car, even if no cars are available on the lot.

I take control of submitting and maintaining the itenerary and other communications to Club Sports, as I am an officer and safety officer. I put down that we will need to rent a vehicle from Enterprise, then I submit the itenerary early so Club Sports cannot initially fault us for not communicating with them, and I go on with my week until their deadline comes up.

-----

It is now Club Sports's deadline. The staff over there review and approve everything, including the rental vehicle. We are good to go for our Friday departure.

Friday comes and I go to my first two classes of the day, skipping the third as we will need the time to drive to Dartmouth. I text James to let him know that I will show up with a rental vehicle soon and to get his stuff ready. Then I call up Enterprise so they can come and pick me up from my apartment. I had put down in the Club Sports itenerary that we need at least an SUV to fit all our stuff, as Enterprise does not allow external accessories, including bike racks, on their vehicles. Hopefully Enterprise got that memo.

I remind the Enterprise agent of this need. Unfortunately, he replied with that all the SUVs and pickup trucks had been rented for the weekend and they had next to nothing left on their lot. However, he would call me back if he found anything remotely suitable. I hoped for the best.

Ten minutes later, I get a call back.

"So, does a cargo van work?"

"PERFECT!"

-----

An Enterprise agent comes over to my apartment in a Dodge Charger and we drive to the office. We go through all the paperwork and he walks me around the back where this van is parked. It is a nearly brand-new Chevrolet Express 2500 in white, with the only windows being the front seats and the rear double doors. My excitement builds as I have never driven a cargo van, even though I have driven van chassis-based box trucks. The agent gives me my copy of the rental agreement that also serves as the vehicle registration for the duration of the rental and wishes me a good trip. Once he leaves, I just start bursting out laughing hysterically.

Sitting in the driver's seat, you can tell that this is not equipped like any other vehicle intended for passenger use. The radio is just a plain, very basic, radio with a 3.5 mm port, for headphones or aux. Fine. There is also a three-prong power outlet supplying AC, nice. Then I started looking for a glove box. There is no glove box. The glove box is just the cubby in the centre console. Next I start adjusting my mirrors. Rear-view mirror is just another rear-view mirror. But the side mirrors are a completely different story. I start fumbling for the side mirror adjusters only to find none, and the realisation sets in: I would need to get out and manually adjust all three of those per side with my cold, bare hands. For the driver's side, it was a matter of leaning very far forward and reaching out the window, leaning back into the seat back to check position. The shotgun side, man. Had to wholesale exit the van, walk over to that side, adjust, walk back, check, walk over, adjust, repeat until position is somewhat correct. It will be somewhat easier when I get James in here.

I start to back the van out of the parking spot. There is a column-mounted automatic shifter, fine. Nothing special about that, as I have driven with those multiple times. This column-mounted shifter allows for more space in the centre console anyway, which benefits the white van men out there.

I make my way back to the apartment and I start loading up my stuff. Bike, trainer, duffel bag with clothes, kit, helmets, accessories and tools, and my backpack containing laptop and class notes. Took a couple trips up and down to load everything but it did not take long, in fact I could not take too long; I had put my park-anywhere-you-want lights on in the permit-only parking lot for this apartment so I would not have to walk too far with heavy stuff. I text James that I am coming over to where he wanted me to meet him with the van.

I drive over to the location and wait five minutes until James starts walking over with his stuff. "I did not expect this monster," exclaimed James, even though I told him I had a cargo van. We load up his stuff, but there was one problem with the total load in general.

Remember how I said this van was spartan? This especially includes the cargo area. No rub rails, no holes for tie-downs, no nothing but a rubberised floor. I devise a plan, largely derived from my hackathon experiences, that especially includes duct tape. Thankfully, I had forgotten to remove the large roll of duct tape from my duffel bag from my last hackathon trip nearly a month ago, so that saved another trip back to the apartment to grab it. However, we would need more items to ensure the security of all our stuff, some fragile.

We drive over to our sponsor bike shop. They get deliveries of bikes in cardboard boxes on the regular, as they sell bikes. However, they do not sell said bikes with or in said boxes; they discard them somehow. Knowing this tidbit, I park the van a block away on two-hour residential parking and we walk into the shop.

"You guys have any old bike boxes you're about to throw out?"

"Oh, plenty! You guys can take whatever you need."

Our sponsor bike shop does a lot for us. We get pretty deep discounts on merchandise they sell, plus since they carry Specialized bikes, they can offer us the Specialized Pro Deal discount, where we can order their bikes at around a 50 per cent discount. But that is only the tip of the iceberg.

Most bike shops do not allow customers to use their tools in the back to work on their own bikes. Since we are the Penn State Cycling Club, our shop has been very good to us over the years, including letting some of us go downstairs to use their tools when they are not too busy. I have taken that opportunity so many times for at least heavier than routine maintenance on my two bikes at the time, as I torture my equipment. Perhaps torture is an understatement. Especially with my fixed-gear cyclocross bike, I ride it for all my local transport needs, including to/from class, to events, even light grocery shopping. This includes riding in the snow, mud, salt and other adverse conditions. Operating bike parts have their longevity limits, but those limits get reduced when operating in conditions where they can wear out much quicker, like rust caused by salt. That means more regular maintenance is needed. I already have a breadth of tools in the apartment, but doing some of the heavier maintenance work there is awkward at best. Furthermore, I do not have *all* of the tools at my disposal, nor would I need them every week. So, going to the shop and using their tools is an optimal compromise. I get to use their work stands and all their tools which make maintenance much more straightforward. I have been able to replace all my cables once per year effortlessly, among other maintenance items. One time I needed to replace my seatpost, but the seatpost was stuck to the frame; me and some of the staff mounted my bike frame to their anvil and used the frame as leverage to twist the seatpost free. Through trials and tribulations in that basement, I have learnt quite a lot about bike maintenance. It's almost like the process of programming really.

Me and James walk down into this downstairs and we grab one box each. We explained that Enterprise gave us a cargo van so we needed to secure our stuff while we roll along America's highways somehow. They wish us good luck for this race weekend.

Once back at the van, we start going to town with the boxes. We found that it was best to just lean our bikes along the sides of the van body and use the boxes to hold them in place. To that end, we cut open the flaps on the tops and bottoms of the boxes and duct taped the trailing edges to the van body and floor, respectively, enclosing the upright bikes. To test this setup's sturdiness to simulate tight yet fast turns on the road, we rocked the bikes relatively vigourously in their enclosure. There was a risk of the box falling apart when the bikes get forced toward the middle of the van, so we looked for heavier items to hold the bottom of the boxes down. I placed my trainer at the bottom of my box and duct taped those together. I then slid both mine and James's duffel bags to his box and duct taped them together. We rocked our bikes in the enclosure again. Need some reinforcement up top, so I added some more duct tape to the tops of the boxes. Now we are good to go.

At long last, we are ready to roll out of campus. It is now 15:20, the beginning of a class change period. We could only proceed slowly through campus towards one of the roads downtown that leads northeast, as hundreds of students surround us and other campus vehicle traffic. We eventually make it downtown, make a left onto aforementioned road in the northeast direction, and in no time we have made it out of town. Let the trip begin!

-----

I had initially set the radio to the local classic rock station, as I neglected to locate my aux cable for my phone. In the meantime, James pulled out his phone charger and plugged it into the power outlet. We are moving along on Interstate 80 eastbound just nicely for about two hours now, approaching the Hazelton, Pennsylvania outskirts. The fuel needle is right at empty, so we take the next exit and pull into a Pilot truck stop to refuel. In that process, we pull up behind another white van, albeit an older high roof Mercedes-Benz Sprinter, and James exclaims that he could not look at other cargo vans in the same way ever again.

For those unfamiliar, the Chevrolet Express 2500 has a V8 engine, which by design is not exactly the most fuel-efficient powerplant ever. Post-trip analysis of the amount of fuel we put in compared to the mileage we drove put our average miles per gallon at just over 19; not bad for a heavy cargo van mostly driving on limited-access, high-speed highways but not exactly spectacular either. I put this fill-up on my credit card, as we decided to alternate paying for fuel when needed. Our club will reimburse one tank of fuel per vehicle per trip, so if the trip exceeds that one tank, everyone in the vehicle chips in. We figured that it would be easier to alternate paying for fuel and decide later which fill-up cost the most to send for reimbursement.

Five minutes and over twenty gallons later, we get back on the road. This was not before James went into the truck stop to take a piss, get some food and an aux cable because he got tired of listening to commercial radio. I still was not sure what that 3.5 mm port was for, so he plugged in his overpriced aux cable and the screen immediately read "AUX". I don't remember what kind of music he put on after that but it was sure better than the rural radio stations we had to deal with for two hours.

Some time later we are in New York State along Interstate 84. We will be crossing the Newburgh–Beacon Bridge over the Hudson River, a toll bridge going eastbound. I had told him that this would be our only toll we would pay this entire trip; the alternatives would have included stretches along the New York State Thruway. We approach the toll plaza after crossing the bridge, still trying to figure out how much we would pay. In PA, cargo vans, along with all pickup trucks, are registered as (commercial) trucks even though probably half of those registered in the Commonwealth are for non-commercial owners and uses. Furthermore, PA has a truck weight class sticker on the front windscreen compounding our confusion. Fortunately, when we rolled up to the booth, the attendant told us the car price of $1.50, so we each chipped in 75 cents and we were on our way once more.

Eventually we reach Hartford, Connecticut, where we would turn due north along Interstate 91 and the Connecticut River. By this point, it is the dead of night despite the clock only showing 21:00. At this rate our estimated time of arrival would be around midnight as long as there exist no adverse traffic conditions. But, we would soon need to refuel once more as we rolled along Interstate 91 north in Connecticut. As the fuel gauge pointed towards empty, I have James look up fuel prices north of us. It turned out the cheapest fuel going northbound was at the next exit, so we take it and hit the pumps. It is now his turn to pay.

I started to feel hungry but there was no time to wallow in it. I grab a snack out of my bag and devour it despite not feeling satisfied with the taste. Said snack normally tastes fine but for some reason during trips with racing involved, it just tastes and feels blah. Whatever. We get back onto Interstate 91 and maintain a speed a bit above the speed limit but not enough for any state troopers to apply discretion and stop and fine us. I took extra precaution in Massachusetts, not really because the stretch of Interstate 91 through Springfield has many tight curves and a low speed limit, but Massachusetts state troopers often sit lights off in the dead of night. Compounding this is that the Massachusetts's portion of Interstate 91 feels longer than it actually is. But then Vermont suddenly appears. 70 miles to White River Junction.

We finally pull into the Super 8 we made reservations at. Immediately we could tell this was the collegiate cycling hotel as the parking lot was full of vans, trailers and cars with bike racks, some of which featured school cycling club logos, especially Army. We drearily check into our rooms, unload our bikes and clothes and crash for the night.

-----

Negative degrees celsius. That was what greeted us when we woke up at the crack of down to get breakfast and head to the individual time trial on Dartmouth's campus. White River Junction is only an exit on Interstate 91 and two miles of state highway including crossing the Connecticut River from Hanover, New Hampshire, but I still budgeted more than enough time to pack everything back up, check out of our rooms and head over to race registration. But so damn cold!!!
