## Holographic Hot Tub

"Yo Charlie," messages Jimmy. "So I managed to secure a hot tub for MHacks, wanna do something with it?"

It is three days before the hackathon at the University of Michigan. This hackathon, a collegiate hackathon at that, is probably the second most prominent collegiate hackathon behind only PennApps. I knew I wanted to do something big at MHacks. I just had to.

I originally wanted to make a heads-up display, specifically for an automotive application. I had acquired all the parts to make it based off someone else's experience doing something extremely similar albeit with a few seven-segment displays instead of a whole seven-inch Raspberry Pi touchscreen. I had been getting everything ready in anticipation for making the HUD, including figuring out how to invert the screen scan on the touchscreen, as the image will be a mirror when reflected on the glass. The glass itself is just a teleprompter glass cut into a small size I wanted that is good enough for now.

Perhaps I could work this into the hot tub hack.

-----

Friday afternoon. The only people coming from my school are me and Chad, and neither of us have cars at school. Lo and behold, I had gone and reserved a rental car beforehand, and I selected a pickup truck for this, as we may need it to transport the hot tub and such.

I call up Enterprise to pick me up from my apartment. They show up ten minutes later with the pickup truck, a Dodge Ram, that I would have when all the paperwork is said and done. Me and the agent drive over to the office and we start getting the paperwork underway.

It turns out that at least this particular region of Enterprise Rent-a-Car does not allow the renting of anything other than sedans, hatchbacks and station wagons to anyone under 25. Me and Chad are both under 25. Welp.

The agents gave me a chance to pick out another vehicle within the policy parked in the lot. Normally when I go rent a car, I pick out a mid-size to full-size car, which in Enterprise terms, which do not even match the actual car classification, are "standard" and "full-size". Sometimes Enterprise's full-size ends up being a mid-size car, like the Ford Fusion, but I have ended up with Dodge Chargers enough times that I have some faith in how they classify things. But anyway, I look around the lot and the largest car they had was a Chrysler 200, a car Enterprise classifies as "standard". I go ahead and pick that one, as I will be taking Chad along with me and we will need as much space as we are allowed to get.

We get the paperwork squared away and off I drive back to the apartment, pack up all my shit and get Chad. Off we go to Ann Arbor.

-----

Me and Chad arrive in Ann Arbor about seven hours later. We had hit some traffic along U.S. Route 23 northbound immediately after its interchange with Interstate 94 on the southern outskirts of town, but this was just rush hour. We make our way to campus, to the designated venue that we would spend our weekend in, to sign in, get some food and figure out teammates and ideas. Once I signed in, I immediately go looking for Jimmy, as I very quickly realised that we were among the only old guard who implement crazy ideas in crazy ways attending this time.

After we hug and such, Jimmy explains that he has secured the hot tub from the seller on Craigslist and that he attempted to transport it to campus. Jimmy drives a new generation Jeep Cherokee, and it turns out that the hot tub would not fit, even with the back seats all folded down flat. The rear liftgate would not close fully, which in retrospect could be worked around temporarily in this case, but we did not want to bother. We would need to figure out another way to get the hot tub to campus. Or so we thought.

Jimmy also explains that the guy originally priced the hot tub at $100 cash. Apparently Jimmy and our other teammate he dragged along forgot about that memo and did not have all the cash on them, because I guess they assumed he would take a cheque or something else. Turns out, the seller just wanted that hot tub gone in some form and getting the original amount was not a priority. So Jimmy and our other teammate just handed the guy $30 and he let us have it.

But back to the apparently unfolding dilemma on campus. The MHacks organisers relayed back to us that we would not be allowed to have the hot tub on campus, despite it being completely disconnected from any water sources, as University administration considered it a "safety hazard". We were all shocked and dismayed to say the least. We even pleaded to just have the hot tub sitting in one of the parking lots adjacent to the venue and they denied us even that. So now we needed to figure out where to put the hot tub and devise a plan that, in case we would have to put it at some considerable distance away, to do much of the engineering work on campus and only make one trip to the tub for final assembly.

Jimmy walks around the venue a bit in frustration. Somehow he comes across Dave, the founder of MHacks many years ago, just hanging around. He brings Dave over to me and the other teammate and discusses our hot tub hack idea. We explain how MHacks organisers and University administration were being total unreasonable bitches to us and Dave immediately related. Five seconds later, Dave goes, "I'll be right back." Five minutes later, he returns with two residents of a house in downtown Ann Arbor called Shift. The house itself is located in the middle of their fraternity row, but Shift is nowhere near considered or even resembles a frat. They are a house full of hackers, makers and other geeks who like to turn up every so often. Dave explains our idea and our difficulties with organisers and administration to the two Shift residents, and they immediately let us use their driveway for the weekend. Le what?

Delighted, we profusely thank the three people who solved one of the biggest conundrums for us. Now our focus turned to getting the hot tub to Shift. Jimmy goes to call up the seller once more, telling him that we now have a location for the hot tub. It turns out, the seller offered to deliver the hot tub to Shift the next morning. Stoked!

Alright, time for more food and socialising even though hacking has technically already started. There is not much to do until we get the hot tub to Shift besides some preliminary blueprinting, but whatever. More food is always good.

We check the schedule again and we find a onesie meetup at midnight. It is now a tradition at collegiate hackathons where some people would bring and wear their onesies during the weekend, as it serves multiple purposes: they are fun, they keep the wearer warm (as venues and human bodies often times get cold at night) and they are actually comfortable to do things in. Seeing that we would not be getting to implementing stuff until a bit later, I whip out my onesie, a chicken. I originally wanted a shark but there were not any available, and the rooster is my zodiac symbol so second choice it was.

-----

The next morning, I wake up all pasty-eyed as usual to word that the hot tub is now in Shift's driveway. I drive over to check it all out, primarily to figure out all our constraints in what we aspired to do. Oh right, I never told you what we really wanted to do with the hot tub.

Jimmy had the idea where we would connect the hot tub to the internet, allowing for, among other things, remote control of the hot tub. The idea was that, perhaps someone has a very long and stressful day at work. They want to relax in their hot tub as soon as they get home. Water takes a lot of energy and a helluva long time to turn hot. Thus, we would allow the user to remotely activate the hot tub from wherever their work is, over the internet. We did not decide on what kind of "pretty" interface we would implement for this demo. That way, by the time the user gets home, the hot tub would already be bubbling with hot water, ready for the user to lay themselves down in.

I arrive at Shift. The hot tub itself is a straight removal from the seller's bathroom, as the straight edges are still there. It got placed at the very back of Shift's driveway where there was a shed. Not so much daylight sit between the shed and the back wall of the house that we couldn't run a hose through, so that was good news, although we did not have a hose at our disposal per se. But in order to test the hot tub before we start breaking some of it apart, we need to put some water in it!

Since we did not have a hose, but we found a bucket that we could pour water into, we started opening up the spigot leading from the back of the house to fill up the bucket. We then dumped the water into the hot tub. We would repeat this for however many umpteenth times to get the hot tub to fill reasonably. Unfortunately, we did not realise that the drain was still open, so we made more trips between the spigot and hot tub than we should have, but whatever. Apparently the hot tub itself would not even turn on without a predetermined amount of water already in it, which meant more trips to the spigot and back.

Eventually we got the water filled up to the bare minimum where the hot tub would start regurgitating warmth. That is also when we make our first conclusion of having to make sure the tub is filled up to at least that level at all times, as the initial water conduit and the bubbler are completely separate items. Next, we focused our attention to the power conduit. Or wait, we were figuring out the power situation concurrently with the water levels. Alas.

Obviously, the hot tub would not turn on without sufficient water. We have that solved now. But how did we get it to turn on at all afterwards? We find two "buttons" at opposite corners of the hot tub. One button, as it turned out, is the power "switch". The other button controls the bubbler. The bubbler button has no effect when the power is cut off. But all power does is warm the water already in the tub. We start playing around with the power button as that would be a key factor in our hack. We set the power to the on position, let it run for a minute, then unplugged the hot tub. We plugged the hot tub back in a minute later, and it fired up as if it came on cold. Now we know that the power button actually keeps state, which would immensely help us later.

We all drive back to campus for lunch and more socialising, but more importantly to start implementing the parts that we would final assemble to the hot tub. We review our preliminary blueprints from the night before and devise an implementation plan. We all brought a lot of embedded (think: tiny, credit card form factor) computers with us for the internet connection and resident control program. We also brought wires to connect the various circuits. There obviously were some mechanical components we would need to construct that the embedded computers would control. For those, we needed to buy some more hardware. No, not more computer hardware, as we had enough, but rather a trip or two to The Home Depot. I drive over to nearest store in Ypsilanti, the next city east of Ann Arbor.

My mission is to get some PVC and brass pipes, cut down to specific sizes. What should have taken one hour tops ended up taking two hours. There was some getting lost in the store involved, I'll leave it at that. But also, Jimmy calls me up on my cell phone, and makes another revelation about powering the hot tub: it would be much easier to leave the power button in the on position and directly control electrical current through the wall plug instead. A proper switch to control alternating current (which is what the wall outlet supplies) would not be available anywhere near here on short notice, plus it would cost a fortune (for us). The switches widely available to us at Micro Center et al are only designed for direct current, and rather low voltages and current capacity at that. Instead, I stayed at The Home Depot to buy two light switches, which already are designed to control AC. We would then need to construct a mechanism to "robotically" move the switches, as the computer would control them.

I drive back to Ann Arbor. It is already 16:30 and the sun is getting ready to set. Dinner is in another hour. Those two had already implemented half of what we planned, including the control code, low-level interface and were testing that on the embedded computers. In place of the actual hot tub control mechanisms were LED light bulbs to demonstrate logical and operational correctness. So far, so good. Now me and Jimmy would go ahead and construct the switch flipper.

Collegiate hackathons do not happen without a ton of money. Much of that money comes from corporate sponsors, which come to hackathons not only to offer prizes, development tools for their products and mentorship, but also to see for themselves who good potential candidates for their open jobs are. In that process, they bring a shit ton of material featuring their company logo(s). Such materials usually come in the form of USB flash drives, sunglasses, wireless speakers, phone chargers and other cheap but easily-brandable paraphernalia. We did not skimp on any of that.

Jimmy had grabbed some plastic sunglasses from one of the sponsor tables. Once I brought the light switches over, he thought for a minute, then started to cannibalise one of the sunglasses. I was not exactly sure what the relation between the light switches and whatever he was dismantling from the sunglasses were, but Jimmy had that conniving face firmly planted within him. Something else to note in general: it is not a true hack unless you have duct tape. Duct tape is a classic. We would obviously be using much duct tape. Jimmy then fished out a small box that had the form factor of one carrying a smartphone, but obviously had something different inside previously. He starts cutting one side of it open and measures the clearance of one of the light switches inside. "Yes," goes Jimmy. He has me grab a servo motor from his kit and we measure clearances for that inside the box too. "Alright we have something here."

I am actually extremely proud of what we managed to concoct here. So damn proud that I still have it in my kit sitting unused as a monument of ingenuity on short notice and I carry it around to show people and say, "I told you so." This ended up being the power controller for the hot tub. The design is, we inject this somewhere along the cable leading from the wall plug and go from there. One of the sunglass arms that Jimmy cut off attaches to one edge of the servo motor, which we program to move back and forth on a predetermined angular range. The arm would push the power switch either way for on and off. We would now repeatedly test this mechanism for durability, as duct tape and later, hot glue, does have their limits. So far, so good.

It is almost midnight again. The clock is ticking, as hacking stops at 10 Sunday morning. Remember how I said the power button on the hot tub keeps state? We also discovered that the bubbler button also keeps state. There was no longer as much time as we would like to implement some of the fancier stuff, and fatigue was taking a toll on all of us. But we needed to finish at least the bare minimum that we could demo. Oh wait, how we would demo the hot tub with it being at Shift but everyone else on campus is another conundrum. We will get to that later. For now, we decide to keep the bubbler button in the on position to simplify things a bit, and now the focus shifted to testing the control software some more, albeit with the power controller hooked into the circuit than LED light bulbs.

All three of us separately napped on and off during the overnight. Me being somewhat paranoid and anxious and jittery after all those energy drinks consumed during the entire weekend thus far, I start pacing through the venue looking around like I was lost. I just needed to walk around a bit. The sun slowly started to rise as it is now 5 a.m. We are just about ready to make the final trip to Shift to perform the final assembly. During the walk, I begin to think about how to demo this hack. When I finished my walk around the entire venue, I had some semblance of a plan to make it all work. I go back and wake the other two up, get some breakfast an hour later, and quickly drive over to Shift to start the final assembly process.

Before we left for Shift, I instructed Jimmy to bring all three of his laptops along for the ride, as I explained how we should demo everything. Not only did Shift let us use their driveway, they also let us use their wi-fi, which would be critical not only for the demo, but for demonstrating the actual purpose of the hack. We connected the embedded computer with the power control module to Shift's wi-fi without a hitch, but now needed to obtain the publicly-routable IP address it operated on. Once we got that, we wrote it down and started testing accessing that through our smartphones which were not connected to the same wi-fi. There were some initial difficulties in remembering some of the commands but we eventually got it working. Next, to repeatedly test turning the hot tub on and off. The power controller's insides had shifted a little bit on the hurried drive to Shift, so we had to adjust things in there a bit. We did fix it in the nick of time.

Now, to set up the demo. Remember, two discrete locations: campus and Shift. We needed to broadcast a live video stream of the hot tub somewhere such that a machine on campus can connect to and watch. Remember how I instructed Jimmy to bring all of his laptops to Shift? We ended up setting one of them on Google Hangouts by opening a video chat on his account to me and leaving that open indefinitely. We tested the remote controller one last time and watched it on the phone to make sure every piece worked as intended, then quickly made our way back to campus. I opened up my laptop, connected to the Hangouts video chat and got the hot tub into view. Only five minutes until hacking stops.

The time has come. Now every hacker team awaits their table assignments as we all needed to move in an orderly fashion to a larger hall that has a science fair-like setup going. That took about a half hour's time on the organisers' parts, as they needed to make sure every team had an approximately equal amount of space to work with. So given that, we started planning out how we would efficiently use our space for the best presentation effect. We know we needed my laptop to display the live hot tub view, plus another laptop to display and work the example interface we somehow bullshitted within the final two hours. We decided to just place them side-by-side, simple as that.

At last, demos started. We anxiously awaited our first suspect to our table, who would interrogate us about what we did, how we did it, what problems it solved and what markets it would serve. That all went on for about two hours, never knowing which judge or random person would stop by and see what we got. I should mention that collegiate hackathon judging is a crapshoot at best. Like I said, you never know who will show up, but more importantly how much time they will spend at your table. Some judges will indeed be playing favourites. Others will focus only on the prizes they will be judging for. You just hope for the best in that your efforts, no matter how ugly, will be recognised in some fashion, hopefully in a prize at the end.

None of the judges would play favourites for us, and we kind of expected that. Our hack was just not as polished as many of the others that were entirely software-based, plus our whole idea and execution seemed a bit much for most judges anyway. Even Major League Hacking did not seem to care very much about us compared to everyone else, so we were rightfully slightly dejected but whatever. We got it done.

At one point during demos, a random person stopped by our table and started taking some interest. This leads to the fact that we needed to dispose of the hot tub after MHacks is completely said and done, after the closing ceremony. Since he started taking some interest in our project, he offered to buy the hot tub off of us. Our original plan was to sell the hot tub to a pawn shop or something of that nature, but his presence curtailed that thought. We accepted the offer and told him to come back after demos finish and people start making their way to the auditorium for closing ceremony. He never came back.

We had a feeling we would not be winning any prizes or honourable mentions at all during the closing ceremony, but I had a small glimmer of hope not only for us, but remember how I brought someone from my school with me on this trip? I was there for him too. Meanwhile, Jimmy and our other teammate wanted to get a head on making their way back to Virginia, so they went over to the hot tub and disconnected everything. He let me keep the power controller, but otherwise he took most of everything we constructed. During that, my compatriot just got called as a winner, so good for him! I just took much of the closing ceremony to nap because it would be a long drive back.

Once closing ceremony ended, I drove to Shift to make sure we got rid of everything from the hot tub. The question of where the hot tub would go afterwards was still unanswered, but at this point I could not care less. Neither could Jimmy, as he and our other teammate were long gone on the way back to Virginia. It did not take long to make sure I had everything, so I headed back to campus to pick up my winning compatriot, packed up all our shit into the car, and started to drive south.

-----

The original plan for this weekend was not only have those who were there, but also a couple Ohio State friends of mine join up given that they were accepted to MHacks. Unfortunately, they were not, but got accepted to HackIllinois at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. The Ohio Staters would wrap up a bit later than us, partly owing to the Central Time Zone Illinois is in, so their bus would get on the road proportionally later than us. I gave the option to my compatriot to stop by Columbus, where Ohio State is, to crash at my Ohio State friend's house for the night instead of just gunning it back to Penn State the same night. We chose to head to Columbus.

Columbus is a helluva lot shorter distance and drive than to State College from Ann Arbor. I checked the maps and it said it would only take about two to three hours, but closer to the two-hour range. We would be waiting for my Ohio State friend to get off the bus for a good amount of time, so I quickly planned out some napping points to kill some time before he got back. This was a bit more difficult as almost all of the route to Columbus is along U.S. Route 23, which obviously is not a limited-access road with rest areas the entire way. Fortunately enough, much of U.S. Route 23 through the northern half of Ohio is a divided highway with bypasses around some of the larger towns, plus there were two rest areas in some of the more desolate spots. I picked out one of those rest areas to nap in, then figured that after some time in that rest area, we would pick it up straight to Columbus and find some parking near my friend's house.

Still in Ann Arbor, we start making our way back to U.S. Route 23 to head south. Not too shabby.

-----

We make it to the rest area somewhere in northern Ohio. As soon as I cut the engine, I text my friend to see where he is at, then immediately fall asleep. Both of us were remarkably tired and drowsy after 36 hours of hacking, so we took any opportunity to rest like candy. At this rest area, it is only another hour or so to Columbus, so we ended up taking a liberal amount of time to recline and shut our eyes. I had to be cautious about the time though, so my nap kind of sucked as I anticipated my friend replying at any minute.

Two hours later, I decide we need to start making our way to Columbus. I checked the text messages one last time; the bus from Illinois is somewhat closer but still has some road to cover. Great. We put our seats back to an upright position. I am feeling a bit more refreshed for at least just the drive into Columbus. We pull out of the rest area and we are on our way.

After a few sparse traffic lights, we make it to the one marked Oletangy River Road, also known as Ohio State Route 315. At this point, State Route 315 is a narrow, winding two-lane road along its namesake river, but once it hits the Columbus beltway, Interstate 270, it becomes a full-fledged limited-access expressway through the central northern part of Columbus. The other option was to stay on U.S. Route 23 to Interstate 270, merge onto 270 westbound for one exit to then change to State Route 315 south. I figured that it would be much less of a hassle to just take State Route 315 the whole way until we reached the exit for Ohio State's campus.

Once I saw the signs and the distinctive cable-stayed bridge leading to the campus, I made my way towards the exit and the bridge. I had driven through here multiple times previously, the first time not by me, so I was familiar with how to get to the campus and my friend's house. The familiar bright yellow glow from the streetlamps shone on the streets of Columbus towards our destination for the night, further confirming the correct path. I make a left onto my friend's street and almost immediately parallel park into an empty spot. We then recline, I text my friend that we have just arrived and to look for a grey Chrysler 200 with New York State tags on it. We fall asleep, waiting for him to knock on our window.

-----

"Wassup dawg!"

We exchange bro hugs and start talking about our respective hackathons we just came from. Then we bring in just our sleeping bags in preparation to sleep, but we wanted something to eat too. He mentions a Raising Cane's Chicken Fingers restaurant down the street that was still open. It is almost 23:00. We decided to make a break for Raising Cane's as that was probably our best option at this point for any sort of food. Even the gas station's convenience store a couple blocks away from his house has its doors locked right now.

Neither me nor my compatriot had ever heard of Raising Cane's. Apparently they are a fast casual chicken finger restaurant chain from Louisiana and Ohio is kind of an island in terms of their market geography. Being that the both of us are both nearly dead, we did not expect too much in terms of taste, but we were pleasantly wowed nonetheless. The stuff was good.

We drive back to my friend's house. He is already asleep in his room, so we come in quietly and get in our sleeping bags for a few hours.

-----

It is 4 a.m. Before I crashed in my sleeping bag, I estimated how much time it would take to drive to Penn State from here. I planned it such that my compatriot would make his first class of the day, which thankfully is not until noon. That means that we would need to leave at around 4 a.m. This also includes any unplanned rest area excursions in case I suddenly feel drowsy.

We quietly pack up our stuff and make our way out of Columbus. It was still the dead of night as we drove along Interstate 70 eastbound past the Interstate 270 beltway, but the sun rapidly rose as we made our way into the rolling hills of eastern Ohio. Some time shortly before the Interstate 470 exit just west of Wheeling, West Virginia, not only did the car need fuel but I needed to lay down again.

Half an hour later, we cross into the northern West Virginia panhandle, the only obstacle along Interstate 70 to Pennsylvania. All of this drive between Columbus and Penn State is completely familiar territory. I know that once we get east enough into PA, we would encounter the PA Turnpike. If I was heading to Philadelphia, I would exit onto the Turnpike. But Penn State is a bit northeast of where the Turnpike serves along the way, and taking the Turnpike would be like the sides of a triangle. And furthermore, the Turnpike is a toll road!
