## Moist Soil Management

It is final exams week for both Varun and I, he at the University of Vermont and I at the Pennsylvania State University. It would be our last finals week during the fall semesters at our respective schools, as both of us have been in the same grade level since the United States educational system started tracking grade levels for students. For me, I would only have exams during the first two days of this week, whereas Varun was occupied the entire week. Most of my "final exams" were in fact final projects that did not need physical submission, so I could expend more effort in preparing for the three actual exams during those first two days of the week. I forget how many exams Varun had. Perhaps it was one exam per day, maybe two on Monday and then nothing till Friday? Not my nature to inquire here.

Tuesday rolls around. It is mid-afternoon and I am relieved of any more exam taking. My excitement builds for when Varun finally finishes all of his exams so we can have a lot of fun, even though said having fun includes very possibly freezing our balls off for much of the time. Usually if I am free of obligations like this I would ride my bike for a bit just because it is a hell of a lot of time I do not usually have for just longer but not necessarily relaxing trainig rides, but today was simply not that day. Instead, I am busily concocting an algorithm or few of how to efficiently pack my car of all the shit I will need to bring home for this in-between semesters break, including making sure my bicycles get secured on the piece of shit rear rack I have been stuck with without scratching the rear bumper any more than I already have. There is no time to get distracted now.

Well well well. I walk back into my apartment from the exam and almost immediately, that feeling of exhaustion, not unlike that feeling at the end of a 36-hour hackathon, comes flying into my chest as if my roommate fired his pistol straight at it, albeit the bullet would not be a firearm bullet but a sedative meant for brown bears. My bed would only be in the next room over so the temptation only got more real. But screen saver Pacman continued to eat dots and horribly dodge active ghosts as I ponder the consequences of any next move I take. Very quickly, the memories of explaining my odd choice of screen savers to anyone who would even accidentally glance over at my laptop, be it the built-in screen or the 4K monitor on the dock, and having to repeatedly cringe at this screen saver's atrocious ability to escape the easiest of ghost-cornering situations had me sitting down at the laptop instead. Type in my password to unlock the screen saver, and Varun immediately corners me with an instant message.

"YOOOOOOOOO sup bul"

"I'M A FREE MAN BUL"

Then I flick my mouse wheel over to Thunderbird to check my three email accounts for any late-breaking news from anywhere about anything. Nothing to see.

They slip in the anaesthetic through my right inner elbow and I am gone.

-----

Wednesday morning. I am surprised I even wake up this early when there is logically nothing to do. Packing does not count.

The two bikes that are going home with me are already readied on one wall. The toolbox, which is really just an old cardboard box originally containing biomedical lab supplies, is in front of the bikes along with three tote bags I got for free from various events and hackathons filled with small tools I usually carry on rides, plus gloves, embrocation, chamois cream and some spare inner tubes. Yes, all that was the first items completely ready to load. You know what, let's load the auxiliary stuff first.

The toolbox is just one oblong white cardboard box with no handles or grips to speak of. Being pretty fully loaded since ever, just carrying the damn thing takes some courage, but not certainly not liquid courage. I always have to remember how I carried it last time I had to do so, which never ends up being the same way each time. It usually ends up as, put your forearm under the bottom of the box and hold on for dear life, even as the box, which is falling apart every time it is moved, slowly crushes the dead skin cells and blood vessels around and through, respectively, the forearms. But fortunately, it is only a short ride down two storeys to my car, which I had driven from Lot 83, also known as Area 51 because it is so remote compared to the rest of central campus, waiting with my park-anywhere-you-feel-like lights blinking. Feeling that crush get halfway through my forearms, I quickly retract the now-forklift of forearms from the top of my car's boot just to get some relief. Decided, this box would now go in the back seat, so I press the unlock button on my key fob twice, one for the driver door and two for the rest of the doors. I now grab the box from the sides like the refreshed madman I am now, open the left rear door and thrust the box into the legwell to the near side. The bags, I simply wore them on top of one another on my back, so they came off in reverse order and placed on top of the box. Time to load everything else rather quickly before the apartment property managers notice my un-placarded car in the lot and get it towed.

Noon rolls around. Everything I needed for the four weeks home has been packed and triple-checked for completeness. Of course, there always end up being at least one "important" item missing when I start driving. This would not be the case today.

-----

"YOOOOO DAWG" texts Varun from Vermont. It is now Friday, the day he finishes his exams and I go scoop him.

"you finished nigga?"

"YEAH NIGGA I'M NOW A FREE MAN"

"WE HEREBY DECLARE OURSELVES AS FREE MEN

"ard when u comin to scoop me"

"boutta leave now fam"

It is already 10:30 a.m. Driving to Burlington, Vermont takes about eight to nine hours regardless of adverse traffic conditions, and I had barely even re-packed my bags for the occasion. Worry? Doubly so, because we will be crossing an international border, to Canada.

Last time I landed in Canada by land, we got pulled into secondary inspection because the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services had just stopped printing Permanent Resident Cards, or green cards, temporarily whilst they replace their old equipment with new printers. I had to make an InfoPass appointment with them almost immediately after they granted my entire nuclear family Permanent Resident status, because my parents got their green cards whereas I was still waiting for mine. This InfoPass appointment would be for USCIS to stamp my passport with a temporary green card so I could clear the border both ways. This was 2009, when my parents decided it would be nice to visit Canada as a fruit of our labour, finally becoming Permanent Residents of the United States. We pull up to the Canadian border station in Champlain, New York, and the Canadian Border Services Officer at the primary inspection booth did not appear to recognise my temporary green card stamp in my passport. For that, he sent my entire family to secondary inspection, a total shithole of a room no matter how you look at it. There are not many people who have to sit in the secondary room at land crossings, but at US and Canadian airports, passport secondary is a dark, dank room full of people the border officers would love to send home. As soon as the primary officer dumps you in that room, you immediately confront the sights and sometimes smells of undesirable, suspected illegal immigrants. Some of them are actually US or Canadian citizens who at the end of the day cannot be denied entry to their respective countries. But others may have lied their way into this room, and the border officers are specifically trained to detect even the slightest of nervousness or dishonesty.

My family walks into the secondary room at the Canadian port. We give our slip the primary officer gave us to the secondary officer and answer the exact same questions as the primary officer at the booth. We explained that my green card had not yet been made and thus the stamp is my proof of Permanent Residency. This secondary officer was also unsure of its validity as she had never seen such a stamp either, so she called the port supervisor over. Ah, the supervisor; someone who would know a thing or two even when the situation could possibly get weird. The supervising officer takes my passport with the stamped page in plain view, and immediately gives the passport back to the other officer. "Yep, that's a US green card all right. They're good to go." They signed our slip with approval and had us go to the cashier, normally sent to for duty and fine payments. We give her the slip, and she prints us a receipt with a code to punch in the gate to proceed into Canada. And that was then.

Back to today. I did a clean sweep of my car, duffel bag and backpack I would bring with me for any prohibited and restricted items, mostly leftover food. I figured receipts from Wawa and various petrol stations would be harmless, right? My dad also left me with a half pack of bottled water from Costco in the boot for emergencies, figuring that the border officers would not care. I place my duffel bag in the boot along with the water and backpack in the back seat, and off I drive to Vermont.

Eight and a half hours later, the sun had just set into dusk along the four-lane divided section of U.S. Route 7 in the north half of Shelburne, Vermont. Back in April I had gotten pulled over in the southern, more residential half of the town where Route 7 is only two lanes wide, for speeding. Given this one and only moving violation I had ever received, and because it was out of state, to Pennsylvania it did not count against my driving record, even then my alertness level spiked up. The speed limit entering Shelburne from the southern municipal border dropped from 50 to 35 mph and I wanted to remain strictly at 35 mph through this sector. Once Route 7 widens to four lanes, the speed limit increases slightly to 40 mph so I did just that at the next sector. Regardless, Burlington was near.

I pull up to Varun's house in what he describes as a sketchy part of Burlington. Dawg, given that we are both from Philadelphia, we know what real sketch is. Anyway, he advised me that parking can be hit or miss, and so on that note, I find a spot a block away from his house and slide into it. A Ford Escort wagon, almost the exact same one I have back home, is parked ahead of me. I take a picture of my forward view and send it to Varun, hoping that he is awake as soon as it hits him. Nope. I sit, and sit, and sit, only to be fifteen minutes later. The sky continues to darken. Getting nervous that we would get into Montreal later than we wanted, I ring him. "Your call has been forwarded to an automated voice messaging system."

Five minutes later, try again. "Your call has been forwarded to a voice messaging system." By this point I am starting to get drowsy, albeit not nearly as quickly as when I finished my last final exam. I recline the driver's seat down so I could power nap for a few minutes. It does not take long after I put my head down that my phone and watch start vibrating.

"Yo dawg sorry I fell sleep. Come in let's go"

Thankfully Varun had his shit, just one duffel bag, ready to go, so we dumped that in the boot and off we headed to Interstate 89. On the streets of Burlington and Winooski, however, it dawned on us that it would be a great idea to refuel before crossing the border, as fuel on the Island of Montreal (and by extension the rest of Canada) is nearly double the price of US fuel. Varun hastily whips out Google Maps to find petrol stations and their prices close to the border as I still have a half tank, but the prices only increased inversely proportional to distance from the border. "We might as well just find the next gas station on this street and pop in there," Varun remarked. Two seconds later, we roll into the pumps for which all payment and pump activation gets performed in the store.

Approaching the I-89 interchange, I remind both of us that northbound, there is severe congestion until the next exit. He confirms on Google Maps traffic view. As we slowly crawl up the ramp, we encounter flares and Vermont State Police directing all traffic into the left lane. "What is this shit," both of us mutter. Our heads start turning to the right, at the same time flawlessly executing the zipper merge, as we pass the two trooper cars in front of the flares. Then, the faint blinks of a car's park-anywhere-you-feel-like lights become apparent. "Yoooooooo, holy," we both exclaim.

"Well Charlie, let's not be that guy."

Traffic drops off now.
